# Projects 

<div class="entry-content">

[]()[top](#top){#toplink}

<div class="anchors">

[title](#title)\
[description](#description)\
[date](#date)\
[agent](#agent)\
[agent\_role](#agent_role)\
[agent\_order](#agent_order)

</div>

[]()\
Projects are primarily endeavors that contribute specimens, use
specimens, or both, but also serve as a convenient place to arbitrarily
group things like Media and Publications.  Dissertations and expeditions
are two examples of potential projects.  Because information about
incoming specimens is recorded as accessions, and because information
about specimen usage is recorded as loans, relationships between
projects can be queried.  Project descriptions, and their relationships
to specimens and publications, are intended to:

-   Track the scientific context of specimens and thereby add to their
    utility and value.
-   Demonstrate the scientific significance of collections by explicitly
    detailing usage of individual specimens.
-   Give credit where credit is due to contributors of specimens, or to
    sponsors of collecting efforts.
-   Allow contributors of specimens to track the usage of
    their contributions.

Projects can be created retroactively in order to reflect the historic
usage or origin of specimens, or projects can be created in the process
of requesting a loan or describing an incoming accession.  A project has
a title, a description, a start date, an end date, and participating
agents who have roles.  Projects may also produce
[publications](publication.html) to which they can be related even in
the absence of specimen [citations](publication.html#citation).

[](){.infoLink}\
**Title:**  Like projects themselves, project titles may be composed
retrospectively or they may be originated by the participants.  Titles
should avoid jargon and be understandable to non-specialists, such as
educated taxpayers. Titles should be self-explanatory, stand alone, and
contain enough information for a user to decide whether to investigate
further or not.  In format, project titles are like journal article and
book chapter [titles](publication.html#title).  (Capitalize only the
first letter of the title and proper names.  Punctuate the end of the
title with a period unless it is otherwise punctuated.)

[](){.infoLink}

**Descriptions** are an abstract of one to about ten sentences.  They
should demonstrate the importance of the work and justify the use of
museum specimens.  Vocabulary and grammar must be suitable for public
display.  New projects requesting use of specimens should include such
descriptions as part of their requests.  As in titles, font control and
special characters are implemented in hypertext markup language. Useless
or absent descriptions will result in the project being under-exposed –
include at least 100 meaningful characters for the project to show up in
search results. Write something meaningful here. Really. Please.

[](){.infoLink}\
**Start Date** and **End Date** will often be approximate, and End Date
can be ignored for projects that are active.  Often, the date that a
request for specimens is received is used as the start date, and the
date that results are last published is used as the end date.

[](){.infoLink}\
**Project Agents** are the people or agencies doing the project.  Their
names are drawn from the agents-names table and must be entered there if
they are not already in the database.

[](){.infoLink}\
**Agent Roles** describe what the agents do as project participants. 
The values for this field are controlled by a [code
table](http://arctos.database.museum/info/ctDocumentation.cfm?table=CTPROJECT_AGENT_ROLE).\
[](){.infoLink}\
**Agent Order** is the order in which the agents will be displayed.  A
principal investigator would usually be number one followed by
co-investigators.  In the case of a doctoral thesis or dissertation, the
student is usually first and the major advisor second, though this could
be an issue of some delicacy.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="secondary">

get yer docs here {#get-yer-docs-here .site-description}
-----------------

</div>

</div>
